# Style guide for dgmet

## General
Always use DGMET or dgmet when referring to this project (i.e. either all
lowercase or all uppercase). The former is preferred in text documents,
the letter in source code files and case-insensitive environments.

The most important rule: **be consistent**.


## C++

### Namespaces
Put everything in at least two levels of namespaces:

1.  The top-level namespace is always `dgmet::`
2.  The second-level namespace should be used to logically group code entities, 
    e.g. a namespace containing functions and classes related to quadrature
    should be named `quadrature::`.

### Naming

#### Types
Type names should use PascalCase. This includes `class`, `typedef`, or `struct`
types.

#### Functions
Function names (free or member functions) should use be all lowercase and words
should be separated by underscores. The name should be descriptive of what the 
function/method does, possibly using a fitting verb, e.g.
`calculate_derivative()`.

#### Variables
Variable names should use be all lowercase, using underscores to concatenate
words. For member variables, attach an underscore to the name, e.g.
`num_cells_`.

#### Namespaces
Namespaces should be all lowercase and use underscore to separate multiple
words, e.g. `dgmet::mesh::gauss_lobatto`.

#### Files
File names are all lowercase and should end in `.cpp` for source files and in
`.hpp` for header files. They should be named after the main class in them or,
if there is no main class, after the main namespace.

Examples: `quadrature.hpp` for a header file with no classes but its main
namespace is `quadrature`. `mesh.cpp` for a file with class definitions for a
class named `Mesh`.


## CMake
CMake variables and built-in commands should be all uppercase, e.g.
`CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR` or `TARGET_LINK_LIBRARIES(...)`. User-defined variables and
commands should be all lowercase and use underscores to concatenate multiple
words, e.g. `dgmet_src_dir`.


## Bash
Use uppercase variables for settings that may reasonably be changed by 
users, and lowercase variables for all internal variables. Separated multiple
words in a variable name using underscores.
